# CS255
Systems Analysis and Design
Throughout this class we were tasked with designing a program for a fictional company called DriverPass whose aim was to create a product to allow individuals to study for their driving test online. They also offer in person driving lessons and scheduling these appointments was another major requirement of the system. In the Business Requirements Document, there were many functionalities requested by the client and it was the intention to create a web-based platform that would require minimal maintenance. As I worked towards creating a fully fleshed out design and plan for the system, I succeeded at creating a multitude of artifacts which would help create an organized outline for a development team to follow. Particularly, I believe my GANTT chart and my UML Class diagrams came out quite well, both capturing enough detail to allow a developer to excel. However, my sequence diagram did not turn out as well and while I do feel that it captured the essence of what was happening; it failed to exceed in formatting conventions which are standard to the SDLC. Utilizing the standards set forth by the software design community are very important, but not as important as capturing the user's needs. With a project like DriverPass meeting the clients expectations are everything and the best way to do this is by looking at the problem through the clients perspective. Perhaps the most important skill when interpreting a client's needs is listening, and you really have to listening to what problem they are trying to solve. You can then place yourself in their shoes to develop a plan to meet the desired goal. The other important aspect is to not lose sight of limitations of both the technical and practical types. With this information in mind, a developer can truly capture the vision of the client. Going forward, I will keep these techniques in mind and utilize the different tools at my disposal such as UML diagrams to create a practical and accurate plan for design.
